# An-Intelligent-Data-Driven-Model
The high relying of electric vehicles on either in vehicle or between-vehicle communications can cause big issues in the system. This project is going to mainly address the cyber attack in electric vehicles and propose a secured and reliable intelligent framework to avoid hackers from penetration into the vehicles. The proposed model is constructed based on an improved support vector machine model for anomaly detection based on the controller area network (CAN) bus protocol. In order to improve the capabilities of the model for fast malicious attack detection and avoidance, a new optimization algorithm based on social spider (SSO) algorithm is developed which will reinforce the training process at offline. Also, a two-stage modification method is proposed to increase the search ability of the algorithm and avoid premature convergence. Last but not least, the simulation results on the real data sets reveal the high performance, reliability and security of the proposed model against denial-of-service (DoS) hacking in the electric vehicles. This project plays a vital role in modern automotive systems, enabling various components and systems within a vehicle to exchange information. However, the growing complexity and connectivity of these systems have introduced new security challenges

# 📝 Introduction 
* Technically, vehicles are composed of many hardware modules namely called electronic control units (ECUs) being controlled by different software tools. All sensors installed in a vehicle will send their data to the ECU, where this data are processed and the requiring orders are sent to the relevant actuators. Such a highly complex hardware software data transfer process may happen through the use of different network protocols such as CAN, LIN, FlexRay or MOST. Among these protocols, CAN bus is the most popular one not only in vehicles, but also in medical apparatuses, agriculture, etc. due to its high capability and promising characteristics. 
* Some of the main advantages of the CAN bus standard may be briefly named as allowing up to 1Mbps data rate transfer, reducing the wiring in the device saving cost and time due to the simple wiring, auto retransmission of lost messages and error detection capability. Unfortunately, since CAN bus protocol was devised at a time where vehicles were almost isolated, this standard suffers from some security issues in the new dynamic environment of smart grids. This will motivate the hackers to attack the electric vehicles through the ECU and inject malicious messages into their systems. Some cyber intrusion scenarios are modeled and applied on the electric vehicles to assess their vulnerabilities and possible side effects getting finally into the power grid. A new classification method is developed for cyber intrusion detection in vehicles. A data intrusion detection system is developed which can detect the cyber-attack based on the CAN bus message frequency increase or CAN message ID misuse. This will help the driver to detect that an attack has happened so to stop the vehicle immediately. It suggests that all CAN messages should pass a data management system to avoid any cyber intrusion. An algorithmic solution is used to stop attacks of types of denial-of service or error flag in the vehicle. 
* It is suggested to assign an ECU as the master ECU in the manufacturing stage of the vehicle so to run an attestation process in the system. A firewall is introduced cyber-attack commands to the CAN bus. An intrusion detection system based on the traffic entropy of in-vehicle network communication system of the CAN bus is suggested. An anomaly detection approach is developed which is capable of detecting faults of known and unknown type without requiring the setting of expert parameters. This project aims to propose an intelligent and highly secure method to equip the electric vehicles with a powerful anomaly detection and avoidance mechanism. 
* The proposed method is constructed based on support vector machine and the concept of one-class detection system to avoid any malicious behavior in the vehicle. Here the experimental CAN bus data are used to let the support vector machine learn the normal frequency of the different message frames at different commands. In order to get into the maximum capability of the model, a new optimization algorithm based on social spider optimization (SSO) algorithm is proposed to adjust the SVR setting parameters, properly. Due to the high complexity and nonlinearity of the electric vehicle CAN bus dataset, a new two-stage modification method based on crossover and mutation operators of genetic algorithm is developed which can increase the algorithm population diversity and at the same time avoid premature convergence. The feasibility and satisfying performance of the proposed model are examined using the real datasets gathered from an electric vehicle.
